Instructions on how to run the application.

Step:1
Download the Application source code from below GitHub Repository

Step:2
1. Use any of the development studio to run the android application like Android Studio.
2. Before running the application make sure to Sync the project and then clean it once.
3. Rebuilt the completed project to be assure that all dependencies downloaded correctly.
4. Connect the real device or download the emulator int development tool and then run the application
5. Initial its asl for location permission to get your current location.
6. Based on current location latitude and longitude its fetches the AQI detail from Air Quality Open Data Platform API
7. Also have an open text field to enter city name to fetch the AQI details
Ex: Hyderabad, Mumbai etc

Step:3
Also included one junit test for ViewModel which can verify methods, and can run directly without any emulator or real device.


A brief explanation of your architecture and design choices.

1. I have used MVVM Architect to develop the AQI Details Application

Explain : We use mainly MVVM architecture to separate the code on each like Model, Viewmodel and View
(i.e) removing decoupling between them. Which makes our code base extensible, flexible, scalability and easily maintainable even we increase the functionality day by day.

2. Used Location API to get users current location  and OpenCage Geocoding API for converting the location and getting Latitude and longitude values.
3. Used Air Quality Open Data Platform API for fetching the AQI details based on latitude nd longitude values.

4. Coroutines to handle the background task to execute asynchronously. which we boost the performance of the application.


API key setup instructions

No any specific steps required to setup the OpenCage Geocoding API and Air Quality Open Data Platform API key its already saved in application. Below is the reface Api key.
AQIKey:String = "11d46e0a8d9ec1c35b6856f84d50b0040522e7e3"
geoCodingAPIKey : String = "e2d042747bca46688973cae800e9c426"